---
title: "students"
bg: darkred
fa-icon: rocket  
color: white  
---

# For Students

<!-- <h3 style="display: inline"> Registrations are open!
<a href="/ilwhack/register" class="btn btn-primary">Register Now</a> </h3> -->

## What is it?

The biggest event of the year &mdash; a 5-day Hackathon. Join a team to create cool applications around data, share ideas about design and explore business opportunities!

We'll provide a great venue for hacking, plenty of free food, workshops and mentors, and prizes at the end of it all. Use this as a chance to finally make a great idea you've had, to learn some new programming languages and skills, to have more great ideas, and if you like, to take up one of our challenges.

### Projects from Previous Years

Feeling stuck for inspiration, or just want to see what people have done in the past? Take a look at teams and winners from previous years!

* [2015]({{site.url}}/2015)
* [2014](https://comp-soc.com/ilwhack/teams/)
* [2013](http://rhiaro.co.uk/ilwhack/finalprojects.php)  

<!-- [last year's pre-hack page](http://comp-soc.com/compsoc/page/prehack). -->

## Who is it for?

This event is open to all University of Edinburgh students who can join a team to do something innovative with data, creating a working prototype by the end of the week. Many Informatics students will be interested because it allows them to stretch their programming skills. But you **don't** have to be a programmer to get involved. Useful skills and areas of interest include:

* Marketing
* Visual design and user experience
* Web development and programming
* Data analysis and problem solving
* Coming up with and pitching great ideas

You can [register](http://www.ilwevents.ed.ac.uk/event-by-day/innovation-lab-smart-data-hack) individually, and form teams on Monday &mdash we'll set time aside for this specially. **Teams will be a maximum of 5 people**.

## What do I need to know?

There's no specific knowledge or experience required to take part in this event. Whether you're a designer, statistician or programmer, all you need is a willingness to get stuck in, work with other people and learn what you can.

In fact, if you've never made a web or native app before, this is a perfect opportunity to add some of these skills to your resumé.

## Why?

You'll come out of this event with new technical skills to show off, an appreciation of working with large datasets or unfamiliar APIs, and if everything goes to plan, a flashy app or website to add to your portfolio. You'll also likely have just spent a week working with up to four other people... evidence of 'teamwork' for your CV!

If you give it your all, there's a good chance you'll win one (or more!) of six awesome prizes. At the very least, you'll get free food every day.

You'll also get a warm, fuzzy feeling from creating something that could give real benefit local people or community groups.

## What should I make?

Look at the challenges, check out the data and think about what kinds or problems you want to address. Then think about the skills in your team, and look at what you can learn from the workshops and mentors to help you decide if you want to make a web app, a visualisation, or a native app for some device. Anything goes! Some of the challenges are pretty broad, and it should be easy to make something that fits under more than one...



<div style="text-align: center">
<a href="https://www.events.ed.ac.uk/index.cfm?event=book&scheduleId=18656" class="btn btn-lg btn-primary">Sign Up Now</a>
</div>
